#Design#

##Introduction##

##Overview##

The structure of our program is relatively simple. From the very beginning, what first occurs is an instantiation of the application, which sets its screen to be the default screen. The handlers (onClick, onButton, etc) are set downwards to functions defined by the screen. The default screen is the class that handles the basic flow of the program, simulating a client. It has three panes, consisting of 1) a section listing user-defined expressions, 2) the box in which the code is written, with an evaluate button underneath, and 3) the pane in which the turtle is shown. The default screen has doFrames for each of these panes. The Library pane makes a call to get the current library of user-defined procedures, and displays them. The Parser pane simply takes in the user’s text input into a box, and when the evaluate button is hit, makes a call to the parser to parse the commands in the box. The Display pane calls a doFrame update on each object in the pane (at our current stage just the turtle, but it could be any object or number of objects). These drawable objects on their doFrame check to see if they are currently executing any commands, and if they are not, and there are commands waiting, execute one of those commands. 
The structure by which commands are transferred from the parser to the interpreter is through command objects. There is an abstract interface designating the core function of a command (the function execute(Drawable obj)). Various command classes implement this interface in different ways, ranging from penUp to showTurtle, but all each command does is tell the object it is executing upon to call some command (e.g. CMDshowTurtle has execute(Drawable obj) defined as obj.showTurtle()). Take for example the command SHOWTURTLE. The parser takes this string, figures out to call its own function (likely from a hashmap of (string, function_pointer) pairs), and calls this function, showTurtle(string). This function creates a CMDshowTurtle object, and posts it to the turtle (likely by some sort of turtle.queueCommand(Command cmd)). The parser then continues parsing, not worrying about how the turtle will actually execute this command. In the turtle’s doFrame, it later checks to see if there are any commands in its queue, and now there is the aforementioned command. It then simply calls cmd.execute(this). The command takes this and calls turtle.showTurtle(), and turtle has showTurtle defined. In this way modifying the actual state of the turtle is restricted to the turtle itself, and the other parts of the code can make requests to do so, but the actual modification is handled by the turtle itself. 
In contrast, information flowing the other way, i.e. getting state information about the turtle (or any drawable object) is very public. Because modification of state data is restricted to the turtle itself, it is completely harmless to pass references to the object all around the code, and so it is trivial for the parser to access state data such as orientation or location from the turtle. In this way the API for parser-object interaction in both directions is public, but is much more heavily restricted in terms of object modification than access. 
There is one other smaller but still notable API as well that interfaces with the parser, that of the user-defined procedure library. The procedure library object is passed into the parser upon construction, but only has two public functions – getLibrary(), which returns all of the procedure objects, and addProcedure(String s), which places a new procedure object within the library based on the original string defining the procedure. The parser calls addProcedure within its own defineProcedure class, where it also adds the function to the HashMap of (string, function_pointer) pairs denoting the structural commands that the parsers possesses (such as repeat, if, etc). On the Library pane, getLibrary() is called, and all of the already-added functions are displayed. 

##User Interface##

##Design Details##

##API Example Code##

##Design Considerations##

##Team Responsibilities##
